>> Will Sentance: So we saw there
that A function can be returned
from the running with other function,
stored in the global label, used that in
the function by its new global label.
And it has nothing to do with
the original running of the function that
from which that inner function
was created, was returned.
Let's now see.
Something slightly adjacent.
And the last thing we need to understand,
before we hit closure.
Calling a function in the same
function call, as it was defined.
I look at this.
I'm gonna save outer,
not do any of its code yet,
run outer,
create counter as 0 inside, store it.
Save the function incrementCounter
Store it, and then call that function.
And then, by the looks of it,
we're gonna look for
some data that is not inside
that incrementCounter function.
But we're gonna step out one
layer to the call of outer.
Calling a function in the same
function corners with a fine.
Increment counter was defined
with saving the call of outer and
then use immediately.
Call immediately.
This is gonna have
extraordinary consequences.
And also ourselves we thinking what
determines the fact that when I run
increment counter inside of outer.
And I don't find counter
inside of increment counter,
I'm somehow going to have access
to counter stored in outer.
Everyone already knows the answer.
Well, do you?
All right, here we go.
Line one.
What are we doing in
line one over to Matthew,
Matthew tonight What are we doing?
>> Speaker 2: You're defining
the outer function global scope.
>> Will Sentance: Beautiful define
defining the outer function.
>> Speaker 2: Where?
>> Will Sentance: Let's
call it in a global memory.
Just to keep precise I wanna
give you what specifically
JavaScript scope's most permanent thing
is towards the end of this piece.
So for now let's just say outer is to find
in our global execution context memory in
our global memory, there it is.
Excellent.
Now, what do we do next,
over to you, Kayla, we are going to?
>> Speaker 3: Execute the outer function.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent,
meaning everybody,
we're gonna create a brand new-
>> Speaker 4: Execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent, all right.
Into the execution context we go,
cool stack really important here cuz we're
now calling a function inside of function
so it's always gonna be more interesting.
So we've got global as
always on the bottom.
Then we have now outer added on top.
Nicely.
Nice and ready, right?
Is this is surprised myself.
In June, we go In our local memory Peter,
what are we storing first?
>> Speaker 2: We're storing
the variable counter.
We have values 0.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
I know people at the variable so
we can alter the value stored in it.
Now we hit what night line next
over to Braden, what do we do next?
>> Speaker 2: You're defining
the function increment counter.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, inside of
which execution context local memory?
Just remind us, I know we can see it,
but just remind us.
We're defining it inside
which execution context?
>> Speaker 2: Inside the outer.
>> Will Sentance: Inside
outer's execution context,
we're saving it inside of
outer's execution context.
And are we using it?
Yeah, we are.
Braden, what are we gonna do next?
>> Speaker 2: You're going to
increment the counter variable.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah we're
gonna execute what function?
What function next Sweden?
Yes, so Braden do you see
looked like Braden might jump
straight into the function we
save the code of the function.
Counter plus plus was stored under
the label increment counter.
And we moved on to do what, Braden?
>> Speaker 2: To call increment counter.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
what told us to call it?
>> Speaker 2: The parentheses.
>> Will Sentance: Parentheses,
exactly friends and
we create a brand new water everybody.
Action contacts excellent.
And in its local memory
This is getting very small.
I'm breaking my rules
here in his local memory.
Cool stack.
What happens on the cool side down?
We add increment counter.
Yeah we got the cool to increment counter.
Onto the call stack there it is,
because recording it inside of outer.
When we finished running it,
global we'll go back to outer, right?
It's kind of nice it
keeps track of it all.
Okay, what is the actual line of code
toward inside of incrementCounter that now
gets executed?
So you just give me the exact words.
>> Speaker 2: An incriment counter.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
you're all very fancy.
Just give me the literally,
just to be clear because it's a big
ambiguous with my name of my functions.
So literally what is
the exact words that get run?
What's the exact-
>> Speaker 2: It'll add
one to their-
>> Will Sentance: See,
the communication's so good, but
literally it says counter plus plus.
No don't worry Todd, you're being much
more meaningful than just yeah counter
plus plus, which means add one to counter.
Okay, time to do some look up.
I'm gonna use green pen for my lookup And,
I'm gonna use green film when I look up,
and where do I look for
counter first, Matt?
>> Speaker 2: You're gonna look in
the context of increment counter.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, beautiful.
Do I find counter?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Will Sentance: No, so
where do I look out next?
>> Speaker 2: Go up to the outer context.
>> Will Sentance: Into outer,
do I find counter?
You bet I do.
I find counter, and
increment it to what Matt?
>> Speaker 2: One.
>> Will Sentance: To one, what I;m up,
exactly.
In other words,
everything would suggest right now
that I first looked top of my call stack,
didn't find what I was looking for.
So I guess, because I'm running increment
counter, inside the running of outer.
What do I do, I went down one layer.
Down my cool stack and losing the outer
right that sounds right isn't it?
Hmm, it seems right to me.
I guess I'm running it inside of
outside doesn't seem wrong and yet
food right now,
that is genuinely a mystery as to whether.
It's a fact that I'm running increment
counter inside the running of outer that
gives me access when I don't find counter
in local memory of increment counter to go
out to outers local memory, or
is it the fact that I saved.
Increment counter inside
the running of outer
that I defined it that I literally saved
its code inside the running of outer.
Right now, I can't tell,
I actually couldn't tell you right now.
So I did two things with
increment counter inside about.
(1) I ran it inside of outer.
running inside of outer into,
I saved it inside of outer.
It could be the fact that I
see that inside of outer.
That means somehow it has
a connection when it gets run
to the counter that was
stored adjacent to it.
Or it could be the fact that I
run it inside of outer right now.
I can't tell.
And yet it's going to be fundamental
to understanding closure.
What the answer to that is